Configuration Basics
====================

It’s important that you read this page and don’t just assume it’s okay to make changes to [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php); it’s not. [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php) is used only to hold default values. It’s updated very frequently, so placing your local configuration there would make upgrading a very complicated process.

Instead, edit [`inc/instance-config.php`](../inc/instance-config.php).

Config files
------------
Tinyboard is made up of multiple configuration files:
* [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php) — These are the defaults. Do not edit this file or you will have a very hard time upgrading in the future.
* [`inc/instance-config.php`](../inc/instance-config.php) — Make all your site-wide changes here. This file is generated upon installation.
* `<board>/config.php` — Optional board-specific configuration files can also be made. These files don’t exist by default.

The syntax for [`inc/instance-config.php`](../inc/instance-config.php) and `<board>/config.php` is exactly the same to that of [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php). You can copy lines from `config.php` and place them in either one of these config files. That is what `config.php` is for.

The configuration variable (`$config`) is just one huge associative array, occasionally split into “sections”.

Loading order
-------------
It’s important to understand how the configuration files work to get the most out of Tinyboard.
* [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php) — `$config` is reset with the defaults.
* [`inc/instance-config.php`](../inc/instance-config.php) — Some `$config` values are overwritten or changed.
* `<board>/config.php` — If it exists, some more `$config` values are overwritten.

Comments
--------
The comments in [`inc/config.php`](../inc/config.php) are probably the greatest source of documentation. It is filled with descriptions for specific config variables as well as examples, for you to copy into [`inc/instance-config.php`](../inc/instance-config.php) and modify.

See also
--------
* [“Events”](events.md)
* [Custom flood filters](config/flood_filters.md)
* [Cache](config.md)
